At this point in 2026, the supply chain is experiencing significant shortages in both server CPU availability and commodity DDR5 memory. Server CPU allocation will be prioritized to those who can prove to have a secure and available memory supply. This would accelerate consolidation toward the large players who have high volumes and negotiating power for DRAM such as OpenAI, Coreweave and the Cloud Hyperscalers. The incoming price hikes for CPUs across the board, combined with high memory prices, will affect each segment of the datacenter CPU market differently.

For AI head nodes which come equipped with 512GB to 1TB of memory per socket, the cost and supply of memory far outweighs the cost of the CPU and the rest of the server chassis. This segment may be hit most in the future in the case where CPU supply improves while memory remains tight, still gobbled up by high margin AI accelerators. CPU vendors are fearful of memory double ordering that exacerbates the perceived memory shortage and are carefully monitoring and predicting inventory levels to manage near-term CPU demand with ongoing memory pressure.

For CPUs used in the Cloud and virtualization markets, throughput and power efficiency are prioritized, with higher rental pricing for larger memory instances. This segment would not be affected as much by memory pricing as the percentage of spending on memory is lower. For storage and edge servers, which typically use lower tier CPUs with low core counts, CPU ASP is only a minor part of system cost. CPU supply may be diverted away from the lower end segments in the near term as CPU makers prioritise high-end, higher margin SKUs to maximise revenue in a supply constrained environment.
