We recently (wrongly) called for an acceleration in Microsoft’s revenue, mostly driven by their large rental fleet and a shift to external foundry capacity. But we think that their recent earnings call they decided to pull back strategically. Here’s the quote:

> And much of the acceleration that I think you’ve seen from us and products over the past a bit is coming because we are allocating GPUs and capacity to many of the talented AI people we’ve been hiring over the past years. Then when you end up is that you end up with the remainder going towards serving the Azure capacity that continues to grow in terms of demand. And a way to think about it because I think I get asked this question sometimes is if I had taken the GPUs that just came online in Q1 and Q2 in terms of GPUs and allocated them all to Azure, the KPI would have been over 40.

The important bit of context is this:

> We’re really making long-term decisions. **And the first thing we’re doing is solving for the increased usage in sales and the accelerating pace of M365 Copilot as well as GitHub pilot or first-party apps**. Then we make sure we’re investing in the **long-term nature of R&D and product innovation**.

There are two beasts within Microsoft: Azure growth for public market investors and investing in Copilot to preserve the Office 365 product suite. To decisively win at one, it’s likely you must lose at the other. And right now Microsoft is one of the largest AI clouds in the world to companies like OpenAI and Anthropic. But they are renting GPUs to the barbarians who will ruin their castle in productivity software.

Claude for Excel effectively is what Copilot for Excel should have been, **but it was launched by an external party on their own first party product**. Most of the cash today still comes from Office but most of terminal value comes from Azure revenue growth. In order to accelerate Azure it will allow the barbarians at the gate to tear down the walls even quicker. And once Microsoft’s deal was made with upstarts, but as OpenAI and Anthropic start to become larger platforms, it’s unclear if the moat will keep them out.

Microsoft’s spending on AI ironically *must increase* or the terminal value of the O365 suite of products is going to plummet. They do have distribution, but it’s mostly on a product whose positioning is eroding by the day compared to the AI upstarts. Meanwhile OpenAI, Microsoft’s core partner in AI itself is seeing enterprise disruption from Claude Code. OpenAI must respond swiftly to Claude Code’s rise in agentic adoption or they themselves might look like an infrastructure company (tokens) not a solutions (agent) company. The risk of disruption is ratcheting up precipitously, and it’s happening to one of the most profitable companies of all time.

GitHub copilot and Office Copilot had a year headstart and barely made any inroads as a product. Meanwhile Satya is literally stepping in as the [product manager of Microsoft AI](https://www.businessinsider.com/microsoft-ceo-satya-nadella-ai-revolution-2025-12?utm_source=reddit&utm_medium=social&utm_campaign=insider-artificial-sub-post) and away from his day to day duties as CEO. It’s pretty clear the stakes of this single product might be the entirety of the company.
