**We have segmented the article into five parts – readers are welcome to focus on sections that are most interesting or relevant to them.**

In **Part 1: CPO Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) Analysis**, we start off by analyzing how adoption of CPO changes the total cost of ownership for scale-out and scale-up networks. We think that TCO, reliability, and equipment vendor bargaining power will be the primary considerations for adopting CPO in scale-out networks. We will explore whether CPO is ready for primetime when it comes to scale-out, touching on the data we have so far on solution reliability such as **Meta’s CPO scale-out switch study** presented at ECOC 2025.

In **Part 2: CPO Introduction and Implementation**, we will dive deeper into how CPO works. This section will explore the evolution of the market from **copper to co-packaged copper** and from **digital signal processor (DSP) optics to linear pluggable optics (LPO) to CPO** and the impetus and arguments for the adoption of CPO. **SerDes scaling limits and Wide I/O** as an alternative to SerDes – particularly when used in conjunction with CPO – will also be discussed.

In **Part 3: Bringing CPO to Market**, we will describe critical technologies that will enable CPO to gain traction and come to market. We first discuss Host and Optical Engine packaging and explain **TSMC COUPE** in detail and why it is emerging as the integration option of choice. **Fiber Attach Units (FAUs)**, **Fiber coupling** as well as **Edge Coupling** vs **Grating Couplers** will be explained thoroughly. We will cover modulator types such as **Mach-Zender Modulators (MZMs), Micro-Ring Modulators (MRMs) and Electro-Absorption Modulators (EAMs)**. This section will end with explaining the core of why CPO is being adopted – the many different **vectors for scaling bandwidth** with CPO: More fibers attached, using wavelength division multiplexing (WDM) and higher order modulation.

In **Part 4: CPO Products of Today and Tomorrow**, we will analyze CPO products available on the market today and their associated supply chain. We will start with **Nvidia and Broadcom’s solutions** before discussing major CPO companies. We cover **Ayar Labs, Nubis, Celestial AI, Lightmatter, Xscape Photonics, Ranovus and Scintil,** describing each provider’s solution in detail and weigh in on important puts and takes for each company’s approach.

Finally, in **Part 5: Nvidia’s CPO Supply Chain**, we will conclude this report by describing in detail the supply chain for Nvidia’s CPO ecosystem, naming key suppliers for **Laser Sources, ELS Modules, FAU, FAU Alight Tools, FAU Assembly, Shuffle Box, MPO Connectors, MT Ferrules, Fibers, and E/O Testing**.
