Now software engineering has and always will be the gold standard information work. But as the quality has finally crossed over a critical threshold, the relationship between coders and their tools have flipped. Coders are effectively just harnessing a black box tool to achieve outcomes, and that was all possible because not only the quality but the cost of the intelligence of tokens has fallen an amazing amount. One developer with Claude Code can now do what took a team a month.

The cost of Claude Pro or ChatGPT is $20 dollars a month, while a Max subscription is $200 dollars respectively. The median US knowledge worker costs ~350-500 dollars a day fully loaded. An agent that handles even a fraction of their workflow a day at ~6-7 dollars is a 10-30x ROI not including improvement in intelligence.

**Enterprise is Already Starting to Move**

The massive deflationary cost of intelligence is going to reprice every information company’s margin for repeatable work. [Accenture just signed a deal to train 30,000 professionals on Claude](https://newsroom.accenture.com/news/2025/accenture-and-anthropic-launch-multi-year-partnership-to-drive-enterprise-ai-innovation-and-value-across-industries), the largest Claude Code deployment to date. Accenture will focus on financial services, life sciences, healthcare, and the public sector. Those are all huge untapped markets for information automation. [OpenAI just announced Frontier](https://openai.com/index/introducing-openai-frontier/) focused on enterprise adoption.

Enterprise software has easily been the first casualty of the great cost decline of intelligence. SaaS itself is just crystalized information processing of workflows into code. The three moats of SaaS, switching costs of data (data is trapped), workflow lock-in (learning the UI), and integration complexity (how Slack works with Jira) have all been partially eroded at the margins. The 75% gross margin of SaaS looks like a huge opportunity, as agents migrate data between systems with lessened migration costs, Agents themselves do not rely on human oriented workflows, and MCP integrations make integration much easier. Every aspect of SaaS is cheapening, and the margins have become the first opportunity of AI.

A simplistic example is an agent can now query a Postgres database directly on your behalf, generate a chart, and email it to a stakeholder. That was effectively the cost of a SaaS workflow like CRM, and it doesn’t need to train humans on UI changes or update software. It just “works”. BI/analytics (agents querying databases) data entry, ITSM (L1/L2 tickets triage) and back-office reconciliation is already in the process of automation! These are knocking on some of the doors of the most sacred moats in software already.

In our view, anything that has a human click buttons, gather information, reformat it into another medium (email, chart, excel, presentation) is a huge risk. LLMs thrive at this kind of data interchange exclusively, effortlessly changing text into audio, English into Chinese, and words into images. And this in our view has a huge threat to one of the biggest companies in the world: Microsoft.
