Shortly after the release of InferenceX v1, we realized how much developer throughput was being left on the table by not utilizing AI more in our InferenceX development. So, we rolled our sleeves up and decided to embrace Claude Code and begin absorbing intelligence, one token at a time to the point that we are currently spending at a $6,000/day run rate. If you want to contribute towards our KPI of absorbing an annualized $3 million dollars’ worth of Claude intelligence, [apply here to join the mission.](https://app.dover.com/apply/semianalysis/2a9c8da5-6d59-4ac8-8302-3877345dbce1) We started our enlightenment journey when we realized the GitHub Copilot agent was free – at first we couldn’t believe this feature came at no cost! We soon realized that Copilot is terrible and it became apparent why GitHub was giving it away for free. You probably would have had to *pay us* to keep using it.

We had been using Claude Code locally ever since it was released. But recently, we have integrated Claude Code into InferenceX development, using it for the usual tasks such as reviewing PRs, but we also have given it the ability to perform sweeps on clusters. With the workflows we setup, Claude can manually initiate runs, view the results, and iterate. This has enabled us to deploy quick fixes easily on the go via the GitHub app.

Another cool use case is using Claude to find recipes for new vLLM/SGLang images. When a new image is released, recipes sometimes need to be updated to achieve optimal performance (new environment variables, modified engine arguments, etc.) With our Claude Code integration, we simply open an issue and ask Claude to search through all commits in the image changelog to find necessary changes to be added to the recipe. This works quite well, and although it’s not *perfect*, it often gives a good starting point.
